---
title: About the Primary Investigators
---

# Dr. Jeffrey C. Carver
[Jeffrey C. Carver](http://carver.cs.ua.edu) is a Professor in the [Department of Computer Science](https://cs.ua.edu) at the University of Alabama, where he joined the faculty in 2008. His teaching focus is software engineering. His research interests focus on using empirical research methods to understand human factors in software engineering, specifically around software engineering education, human errors, requirements engineering, peer code review, software security, and research software. He is a senior member of IEEE and ACM. He earned his PhD from the University of Maryland in 2003.

# Dr. Sarah Heckman

[Sarah Heckman](https://people.engr.ncsu.edu/sesmith5/) is a Teaching Professor and Director of Undergraduate Programs in the [Department of Computer Science](https://www.csc.ncsu.edu) at NC State University.  As a teaching track faculty, she has had the privilege of teaching over 3,700 students in software engineering and programming language courses since 2009. Dr. Heckman has been recognized as an NC State Alumni Distinguished Undergraduate Professor and is a member of the NC State Academy of Outstanding Teachers.  She was Program Co-Chair of the Technical Symposium on Computer Science Education in 2019 and 2020, the flagship conference of the ACM Special Interest Group in Computer Science Education (SIGCSE) with over 1,800 attendees. Dr. Heckman has received over $5.1 million in grants and gifts, has co-advised one Ph.D. student to completion, and has mentored over 30 undergraduate researchers. She is a senior member of IEEE and ACM. Dr. Heckman received her Bachelors of Science, Masters of Computer Science, and Doctorate of Philosophy from NC State University Computer Science in 2004, 2005, and 2009, respectively.

# Dr. Mark Sherriff

[Mark Sherriff](https://engineering.virginia.edu/faculty/mark-sherriff) is a Professor in the [Department of Computer Science](https://engineering.virginia.edu/departments/computer-science) in the School of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of Virginia, where he joined the faculty in 2007. His teaching focus is in software engineering, video game design, mobile app development, web application development, and introductory computer science. He has won numerous awards for his teaching, including the 2016 IEEE Computer Society Computer Science and Engineering Undergraduate Teaching Award and the 2014 University of Virginia All-University Teaching Award. In 2019, Mark became a Senior Member of the IEEE and ACM. His research interests are in CS education and the scholarship of teaching and learning (SoTL). He received his BS in Computer Science from Wake Forest University in 2002 and his MS and PhD from NC State University in 2004 and 2007.
